it's red comes in a tall bottle and
sometimes can be really frustrating but
it turns out that ketchup can actually
be an important health food if it's the
right stuff we find out why in this
chapter of dr. Greene's organic
prescription number five on the
prescription is catching the ketchup is
an easy switch but how in the world did
it make this list well there's an
important nutrient called lycopene it's
one of nature's most powerful
antioxidants in some studies that's been
shown to prevent cardiovascular damage
and cancer it helps to prevent and heal
damaged in ourselves tomatoes are one of
the top sources of lycopene in our diets
more than eighty percent of our lycopene
comes from tomatoes so what is the
number one source of tomatoes in our
diet well it turns out we do eat a lot
of fresh tomatoes in fact the four top
vegetables in a typical American diet
number ones potatoes then comes lettuce
than onions and then tomatoes it sounds
like a hamburger with french fries
pretty much but most of the tomatoes we
eat are not fresh tomatoes the typical
American eats about 94 pounds of
tomatoes a year and out of that 73
pounds or in the form of processed
tomato products like tomato juice tomato
sauce tomato paste and yes ketchup and
especially in kids ketchup is a big part
of our tomato consumption it's so much
so in fact that at one point during the
Reagan administration the government
wanted to call ketchup a vegetable so in
recent years some of the USDA scientists
decided to look into catch up and find
out is it a good source of this really
important nutrient like of pain is it a
good source of antioxidants and they
measured a variety of different kinds of
catch-up conventional store brands and
the little foil packets that you get
sometimes at restaurants and the stuff
that squirted on to fast food burgers
and some organic brands and they found
that on average organic ketchup has
fifty-seven percent more lycopene than
its counterparts and doppel the at total
antioxidants a big nutritional
difference
one organic ketchup had 183 micrograms
per gram of lycopene that's about three
times as much as the conventional
ketchups and five times as much as a
fresh tomato here's a shopping tip when
looking for catch-up the deeper red
color tends to go with higher lycopene
levels so this simple switch could make
a big difference because tomatoes are
such a big part of our diet we can
reduce the pesticide use on tomatoes
especially organophosphates a lot of
which are used on tomatoes but beyond
that with a simple switch we could make
a big difference in the nutrients that
we're getting every day for more
information visit me at dr. Greene calm
I'm dr. Alan green and ketchup is my
organic prescription for today
you